# Lord Of The Memes

Lord of the Memes is a fun interactive game to be played with friends reacting to various situations with meme gifs.

## Demo

Demo project is hosted at - https://lord-of-the-memes.flutterflow.app/

Demo video - https://youtu.be/Oh9oZDm3aO8

No instructions required. Please refer to the demo video for an example gameplay. Recommended to play with 3 or more players.

## Team

I built this solo.  
Github: https://github.com/mohonish/  
Twitter: https://twitter.com/mohonishc

## Motivation

The first four years of my career were spent in app development. Since then, I have pivoted to backend/full-stack engineering because I felt that with the advent of powerful frameworks such as react-native and flutter, it would not be long until no-code / low-code tools would take over the market - and I would lose my job. Looking at FlutterFlow, it seemed to me that the platform would be good for building simple CRUD applications. But I wanted to test it's limits. And with the supabase integration, it was a perfect opportunity for me to jump right in and try to break things. This was an experiment in building a non-trivial no-code app. How much can I build without writing any code myself?

## Process

My first roadblock was when I realized that Supabase realtime does not work out of the box on FlutterFlow. I enquired on the supabase discord server and I was disappointed to be confirmed about that limitation. There existed workarounds but most of them required me to write code.
TODO: add screenshot.

So as a workaround, I decided to leverage `Periodic Actions` in FlutterFlow, to poll a backend API every x seconds. I used this to drive the real-time or interactive features of the app. For example, updates on the Lobby page, being moved to the game page when the host starts the game, etc.

I did not want to own a backend API service for this app. I did not even want to own edge functions unless required. If I'm doing this as low-code experiment, I'm going to avoid anything that needs me to write code. So I created database functions for most of my query functionality and used the PostgREST API exposed by Supabase. For example, calculating the results of the game is a slightly complicated sql join query, which was a good candidate for a database function.


## Tech Stack

### Supabase
- `Postgres database`. My data is designed to be stored across 6 tables.
- `Database functions` instead of using a backend service. Used to set up non-trivial database queries with parameters, such as calculating the most happy player, or calculating the not easily impressed player.
- Used `PostgREST APIs` to execute database queries and defined database functions.

### FlutterFlow

I built this app completely using FlutterFlow. Here are some of the features of FlutterFlow that I have used extensively in my app.
- The `Action Flow Editor` is the heart and soul of every logic in this app.
- `Periodic Actions` to poll APIs and check for results/conditions.
- `Condition Actions` for error-handling of API responses and for checking logic to automatically route users between pages.
- `Code Expressions` for making simple calculations.
- `Custom Code` for when code expressions were not enough. For example, append to an existing array, convert a string to a list, etc. All of the code was generated by using `OpenAI's Codex API` that was conveniently integrated inside Flutterflow.
- ` API Calls` to define, and test all of my API endpoints. 

### Others
Tenor GIF API - for searching GIFs.

